---
layout: post
title: "Some kind of new thing. For the new year and all that."
---
At some point in the past, a new year turned up. This seemed like a good
opportunity to go and do something useful with various things that I wanted to
do in life.

First up, finishing off [buying a house][1]. Having had an offer accepted back
last May, I'm looking to *actually move house* in February, only 9 months
later! Who'd have thought that this could possible be a long, annoying, drawn
out process.

Secondly, I've already mostly done the second thing I meant to - port this
site to [Django][2]. I switched over from a Java/Glassfish based platform to
Django back in early January, partly to try something new but mostly because I
was [a little worried about Oracle][3]. There's a long way to go in terms of
getting the performance up - it's quite bad at the moment and I need to do a
fair bit of profiling, optimisation and general jiggery-pokery. All a good
learning experience.

Thirdly, I want to cycle the [South Downs Way][4] over two days. I've not done
nearly enough biking out and about and think that 100 miles in 48 hours should
be a reasonably achievable target. This should also be a decent motivation to
get some fitness up.

Fourth, join an orchestra. Don't care which one. The world needs more piccolo
players.

Finally, do a stable release of [Feedling][5]. It's been hovering around my
mind for a long time now, and I've yet to get it to a point where I'm
comfortable with it being stable. There's a bunch of features that I still
want it to have, but I should be able to finish it off at some point this
year.

And that's it. I'll probably get to December and find that I've done none of
these things. Hope not.

   [1]: /2010/08/19/me-vs-universe-the-struggle-continues.html

   [2]: http://www.djangoproject.com/

   [3]: /2013/11/03/django-updates-and-thingies.html

   [4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/South_Downs_Way

   [5]: http://feedling.sourceforge.net/

