---
layout: post
title: "DNS Woes"
---
So, in my [previous entry][1], one of the things I mentioned was around
putting static web content on a separate subdomain. Having done this myself, I
created a subdomain for this site to serve up CSS and JS content and called it
res.growse.com. It seems that this has been causing problems over the past few
weeks with my secondary DNS providers.

If you care or understand about such things, read on. If not, the end point is
that I think I've fixed it, but bear with me.

I use [Everydns.com][2] as my secondary DNS people. They're wonderful. More
importantly, they're free. However, for the past few weeks, they've been
serving up NXDOMAIN responses to DNS requests for res.growse.com. I spent a
while troubleshooting this, only to find out that the IP address that they
request zone transfers on a regular basis is _different_ to the IP address
they use to do the initial transfer. I could delete and then add my domain on
their site, and watch in my log the initial transfer succeed, because that IP
address was permitted. What I didn't know was that future requests come in on
a different IP, so they were being denied. This change seems to have happened
back in March, if [this tweet][3] is anything to go by.

Everydns.com doesn't have anything on their site about this change though. In
fact, in their FAQ, under ["What IP does everydns.net use to request my
zone?"][4], 71.6.202.218 isn't listed.

So there it is. If you use them, keep an eye on your AXFR requests and make
sure they're not failing. Or just allow anyone to transfer your zone, if you
don't care who has it.

   [1]: /news/comments/optimize-optimize-or-how-i-m-trying-to-make-websites-go-faster/

   [2]: http://everydns.com

   [3]: http://twitter.com/davidu/status/1371687539

   [4]: http://faq.everybox.com/secondary-domain/what-IP-for-AXFRs
