---
layout: post
title: "Efficiency. Wonderful."
---
I've been getting a few things done rather ahead of schedule lately, which is
a fairly large shift from normality. I'm cracking on much faster than I
thought I would with a new [Glassfish][1]-based version of this site, I'm
already buying Christmas presents, I'm renewing insurance ahead of schedule,
I've booked parts of next years holiday - it's all go.

Java and Glassfish is proving to be a bit of an interesting foray. Previously,
I had written Java off as slightly irrelevant and not particularly high-
performance. However, many people and things have corrected this impression I
had, that seems to be at least a good few years out of date. Anyhoo, I've
developed in .NET for work for a good couple of years and it was remarkably
easy to slip into Java development. The biggest hurdle was the stupid
terminology (wtf is an EJB?) and getting that translated into sensible-speak
(oh, it's a thingie!) was rather useful. [Netbeans][2] has been awesome
throughout all of this. I'll probably get it finished during the rest of the
year and end up sticking it behind [lighttpd][3].

In the real world, I'm having a hilarious time figuring out how to navigate 24
miles a day through London traffic on a bike. I've put 300 miles on it now and
have so far discovered what it feels like when the clutch overheats and that I
think the fuel gauge is broken. Running out of petrol on the north circular
with the gauge saying I had a 1/4 tank left was a key highlight. I'll 'have a
word' with the nice garage people when I take it for its first service. The
clocks did just go back, so it's all rain, cold and stupidly slippery roads
from now on. Great!

   [1]: http://www.sun.com/software/products/appsrvr/

   [2]: http://www.netbeans.org

   [3]: http://www.lighttpd.net/

