---
layout: post
title: "Living with a storm-cup. I mean...."
---
With Christmas being delightfully merry and cold, I made a resolution in the
new year. Well, I didn't really, I just decided to do something and it
happened to be the new year, so lets call it a resolution. I decided to take
out a phone contract.

I've not had one of these for a while, preferring to use my work phone and
just itemize out the personal stuff. However, I was quite tempted by the new
Blackberry [Storm][1] thing given that it did lots of nice fancy things.
However, given that Blackberry seem to have released it at the tail end of
2008 without actually putting it through any sort of QA process, there were
numerous reports of software bugs.

Still, in mid-December they were rolling out software updates and the feeling
on the interweb was that these were certainly better. Thinking that there was
no time like the present, I subsequently agreed to give a large wad of cash to
Vodafone each month, in return for which they'd let me talk to other people.
Thankfully, [Quidco][2] were doing a Â£90 cashback offer for Vodafone
contracts, so I made something back at least.

Anyway, it arrived. It's a nice bit of kit, confirming other users reports
that the hardware was great, but the software less so. I checked that it had
the latest version on it and found that it wasn't too bad. It's a little
sluggish sometimes when it's got a lot to figure out (a bit like me at times)
but it's far from unusable. GPS is very quick to pick up, watching videos on
the screen is much better than on the old blackberries (8310), the camera's
rather good and, best of all, it's a java-based platform so there's a good
amount of software out there. I like it. I just have to like it for the next
18 months now.

In other news, I'm working on a fabulous new graph thingie which is all about
spam. Should be good when I'm done testing (yes! Testing!!!) it.

   [1]: http://blackberry.vodafone.co.uk/storm/

   [2]: http://quidco.com

