---
layout: post
title: "It's as if I've been away all summer."
---
I'm not very good at this. One of my main reasons for owning a blog is to
allow me to look into the past and cross-reference my random distorted
memories with some inane ramblings that I was making at the time. For example:
I can look back on [entries like this one][1] and be reminded of how I felt
during most of the 3 years I spent at university. Of course, there is a
secondary purpose, which is to keep various people (who I know but don't talk
to often enough) updated with what's going on with me. It's like one of those
annoying family newsletters that some people send out periodically, but more
frequent and less about babies.

Recently, I've rather failed to keep up with my, admittedly low, frequency
standard. I shall attempt to fix this for the rest of this year. In the
meantime, here's a quick summary of what's been going on.

I'm still buying a house. I didn't think this would be a terribly fast
process, but I've been rather unprepared for the horror of how long this is
taking. I'm currently giving even odds on being in by Christmas.

I passed my bike test. This is a good thing, even if the actual test process
was a complete farce. It's a little disconcerting sitting in the DSA office
after the test waiting to be told if you've passed or not, and this isn't made
any more comfortable by the fact that your instructor chooses that moment to
have a series of arguments with the examiner on subjects ranging from what
'Give way to oncoming traffic' means to the legality of pulling over into a
cycle lane. I think the examiner hated me. He still passed me though, mostly
because I didn't actually do a _single thing_ wrong during the test. I'm
pleased with that. I now need to go shopping.

I've been learning more Java, and have had to make some fairly significant
changes to this site. Originally, it was just a bunch of JSPs that called some
JDBC on the backend. But then I read about [JPA][2] and decided I wanted some
of that. So I began yet another rewrite, but this time doing the backend bit
properly. In theory, this was a simple job, but I ended up lurching between
various persistence providers. I started with EclipseLink, which is the
reference standard for JPA 2.0. However, after discovering there were some
fairly major features still missing from this, I gravitated towards Hibernate.
I didn't really get on with Hibernate - I thought it was a bit backward. I'm
sure it's wonderful and very good, it just didn't seem that straightforward to
me. Finally, I settled on TopLink, which is Oracle's thing. Surprisingly, this
is straightforward, easy to configure, feature-complete, extensible and
generally works. Good stuff.

I've got a new job. It involves building stuff. I like building stuff. I'm
going to see if I can get the word 'Lego' into my objectives.

I'm off to the proms on Friday! This is exciting for many reasons, one of
which is that it's Mahler 8. Every year when the proms schedule is published,
I look through to see if they're doing Mahler 8, and they never do (not
surprising). This year, they are, and it's going to be great. Long-winded,
heavy, but great.

And that concludes the news.

   [1]: /news/comments/the-joy-of-beer/

   [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Persistence_API

