---
layout: post
title: "The Great Adventure - Prologue"
---
The Great Adventure is about to start. My flight leaves tomorrow at about
1:40, and I just checked in. Apparently I'm in 61A, although I thought I was
going to be in 60A. Doesn't matter. Getting this far has been a roller-coaster
ride in itself.

The main issue was the visa. I was at the [US Embassy][1] in Grosvenor Square
back last Thursday. It's a fairly scary place seeing as it looks like they
just picked up a US Govt. building that they didn't want in Washington (or
somewhere) and then flew it in bits over here. The gold-plated eagle statue on
top finishes off it's tackiness and faux-intimidation quite well. Anyway, once
I got past the men-with-guns, I then found out I had to queue for lots of
things. My first queue was to get in the building, this was short, and
consisted of me and another person. After that, I had to queue to go through
security (outside), then security (inside) and finally joined a small queue to
get a ticket. On the ticket was printed a number which I was told would be
called. As this was being explained to me, I heard number 231 being called
out. My number was 361. By this point I was a little annoyed and went to sit
down amongst the 250 other people who had been given 'appointments' at this
particular time.

Time passed. About an hour and a half later, my number was finally called. I
went to the correct window, where I was fingerprinted and my paperwork was
taken off me. After about 3 minutes, I was told to sit down again and my
number would be called for interview. It was about now that it dawned on me
that I had been queueing for and hour and a half to actually get into the
queue for interview. Dejected and pissed off, I sat down again. During these
long lamenting periods of utter boredom, I tried to amuse myself with theories
about how the numbering system worked. It seemed that there were 4 queues:
Non-immigrant, Immigrant, Interview and DHS with about 120, 14, 70 and 3
people in them on average, respectively. The first queue was what I was in for
the aforementioned hour and a half and I imagine the second queue was the
similar queue for immigrant visa applications. These were quite predictable as
the numbers were called in order. However, everyone basically ended up in the
"Interview" queue, regardless of what you were applying for. Because you can
get any one of about 30,000 (or so) different types of visa to the US, this
meant that every application went through a varying amount of processing time
before the interview was ready, and therefore the numbers for this queue were
called completely at random. The downside of this was that I actually had to
stay awake for the next hour waiting for my number, with no indication of when
it would be. I saw people being called within 10 minutes of giving their
paperwork in, and I saw people who looked like they had actually been there
since 6am.

Eventually, I was told to go to window number 22, which, in the cluster of
interview windows, was the only one with a chair in front of it. Intruiged by
this, I sat down and was immediately engaged in conversation which went like
this:

  * I(nterviewer): So, you did Chemistry at Cambridge

  * Me: Yes

  * I: What do you know about biological warfare?

  * Me: (blink)

  * I: It says on your form that you have experience handling biological
warfare agents

  * Me: No (you moron), it actually asks if I have experience handling either
chemical, radioactive or biohazardous materials. I ticked yes because that's
true for 2 out of those 3 things.

  * I: Nice smile

I could tell from this point that this might be quite interesting.

Sadly, it only got more boring as the interviewer seemed to refuse to conceive
of the fact that I work for a company who are sending me to another country in
order to become experienced in the way that they do things. The fact that I
didn't have a detailed "Training Schedule" seemed to aid him his this
stubbornness. Eventually, after about 10 minutes of me becoming more
frustrated, he asked me what I hoped to learn, so I told him. Then he told me
he'd decided to issue me a visa (how nice!). Seemed like the whole point of
the interview was to see how I reacted when presented with a seemingly stupid
US beaurocrat asking me awkward questions about what I did. Seems like getting
frustrated and saying the same thing over is what people who aren't terrorists
do. Cunning.

After this entire lengthy, sweaty, exausting and frustrating process, I then
had to queue to pay a courier to ship my passport back to me. They told me
that I had to receive it myself and present the guy with ID when he delivered
it to me. I found out they were wrong when, the following Tuesday, the courier
turned up and happily dropped off my passport to someone else at my house who
simply waved a photocopy of my passport at him. Oh well.

So there we go. I've got the visa. My apartment exists and is booked. The
delivery guys came this morning to put all my bulky stuff on a plane. I've got
my boarding pass. Next thing you know I'll be wandering the streets of some
vaguely familiar US city looking for things to buy. I'll keep you posted as to
what happens.

P.S. Go see [Avenue Q][2]! Don't ask why, just go see it!

   [1]: http://www.usembassy.org.uk/

   [2]: http://www.avenueqthemusical.co.uk/

