---
layout: post
title: "The Great Adventure - Day 1"
---
I'm here. The flight was a rather warm hour late taking off, but once we were
in the air, the air-conditioning kicked in and it got a little bit nicer. The
immigration process was surprisingly uneventful, as was the taxi ride to the
city. One thing I like about that particular journey is that as you approach
Manhattan from the west, the road goes round a curve and suddenly this huge
skyline appears in the haze and stretches most of the way across your field of
view. I've seen it before, many times, but the New York skyline never fails to
be breathtaking when seen from that point of view. Once you actually get
through the midtown tunnel, it becomes more mundane and familiar.

I arrived at my apartment on west 48th street and was pleased to see it's a
good size, in a good location, with a good view (14th floor) and with most
things included (cable, kitchen, sofas etc). The balcony was a particularly
nice find. My first quest was to find a way, at 6pm on a Saturday night, to a)
get a drink and b) get some sort of wireless working so I could set up my
email and pick up my [Skype][1] voicemails. I decided that (a) was too easy
and that I was much too tired for that sort of thing. (b) was a whole
adventure in itself however. First I had to find a shop selling something of
that sort, so I stumbled across a BestBuy on 5th avenue. I needed a webcam as
well, so it suited my needs. Anyway, it was in there that I overheard a guy,
lets call him Mr. D(umbass), asking the cashier, after he had paid, whether
his brand new iPod would work outside of the US. The cashier looked a little
puzzled and said that it would, as he just needed to plug it into his laptop.
However, Mr. D wasn't having any of this. He wanted to know if it would play
his music when he was in a different country. Thus ensued a frantic summoning
of a "sales assistant" to explain to him that he was being a little bit silly.
Now, it could be that coincidentally, within 2 hours of arriving in the
country I had discovered the most stupid person in the state. Or, it could be
that this sort of thing is really common. I don't know yet. I'm hoping Mr. D
is unique. Anyways, I got everything I needed (although I now need to return
half of it - different story).

That was yesterday. Today was my first full day and annoyingly, I was up at
7am. This was probably because I thought it was midday and therefore should be
tucking into lunch. In any case, I checked the opening times of [B&H][2] and
then headed out to wander round town. At about 10, I headed down to B&H and
managed to buy a new lens for the camera which I'm rather pleased with. It's a
[Canon 10-22mm][3] and 'wide' doesn't quite cover what this lens can do. I've
yet to fully find a good way to take pictures, but it's fun experimenting,
especially when I'm surrounded by huge buildings that I could never previously
get fully into one shot. I meant to go up to the park in the afternoon to have
a look around there, but the temperature hit about 40 degrees and stayed
there, so I gave up.

So, I'm still on UK time, but I've found the supermarket. I'd never thought
about that part of living here really, as the last 3 times i was here, the
company paid for most things. But I've cooked now, so I feel like I'm properly
living here.

   [1]: http://www.skype.com

   [2]: http://www.bhphotovideo.com

   [3]: http://www.canon.co.uk/For_Home/Product_Finder/Cameras/EF_Lenses/Zoom_Lenses
/EF-S_10-22mm_f-3.5-4.5/

