---
layout: post
title: "The most interesting day of the last 5 months"
---
The past few weeks has been slightly trying. The server has been up and down
as we've tried to configure it in a way that's sensible. I've re-
fanglemajigged my email at home, and everything should be running smoothly
from now on. Hopefully.

I went to see Spamalot and Les Miserables in the past 3 days. Both were
slightly underwhelming, in a strange way. Both were technically excellent, but
missed out on having that bit extra that makes you stare wide-eyed at the
stage going 'wow'. Spamalot was funny, but not that funny. Everyone in the
audience knew half the jokes and that was a problem. The stuff they did that
was new was actually quite good, but you expect a comedy and get a half-
hearted attempt. Les Mis was even weirder. Fantine had a cold which meant she
sang about a quarter-tone flat, the extended family of the kid (the one that
gets shot) was in, so every time he appeared there was rapturous applause, and
the entire production gave me the feeling that they all wanted to get the
thing over and done with as quickly as possible. Now, apparently there are
union regulations which mean if you go past a certain time, you have to pay
everyone more, so my solution is simple: start earlier. Yes, it's a long show,
but it needs to be to get all the plot in. Starting at 8 and ending at 11pm
precisely spoils it a little. Enjoyable though.

Annoyingly, I seem to have sat in on a meeting today where something
interesting is going to be started. Something that could really be a good
thing for customers and get rid of a lot of nonsensical crap that's currently
sitting there. Had they started this at the beginning of my placement, I would
be over the moon. As it is, I've a month to go, and I'm going to miss out on
doing something interesting. Sucks to be me. Still, means I'll be busy for the
next month.

Season 7 of the West Wing was released on Tuesday, so I'm off home to watch it
all.

