---
layout: post
title: "Survey of Double Chocolate Muffins in Cambridge"
---
As I live in Cambridge now, I decided to carry out a survey to see which cake
shop sold the best double chocolate muffins. In case you do not know, a double
chocolate muffin is a large-ish mushroom shaped cake made of chocolate sponge
with chocolate chips in. Here's a diagram:

{% include image.html alt="Diagram of a Muffin" src="/assets/img/2003-02-11-survey-of-double-chocolate-muffins-in-cambridge/cake.png" %}

These vary hugely in quality, size and price. I knew what had to be done to
clear up any confusion on this hotly debated topic. Please note, this is not
an excuse for me to go round eating lots of chocolate. That's just a perk.
There are also pictures of each to come.

## Nadia's

Nadia's is a cake shop chain that has four shops in Cambridge. The particular
shop I visited was on King's Parade and is where I usually go for all cakes
and things. This particular muffin cost 80p but was quite small. However, it
was so good, that I went and bought another. The other advantage of this place
is that they're baked on site on the same day. Overall then, a decent 9/10. It
falls a point short as it wasn't filling enough.

## The Pembroke Trough

This is the common name of the main dining hall in Pembroke College, where I
live. I decided to buy and examine one of the things which they call a muffin
in the main dining hall. It cost me a pound and was small and wasn't very
good. It's also one of those mass-produced things and so was a bit stale with
not much chocolate inside. 2/10 for trying.

## Millie's

Like Nadia's, Millie's is a chain. Unlike Nadia's, it is a nationwide chain.
This however, does not stop them baking on site. As a result, their muffins
are most pleasing. The only thing that stopped me buying two, is price as it
costs £1.30 which is expensive. However, they are very large and very filling
and so there is not much need to have another one. I'd say 8/10 as they are
slightly too big.

## Don Pasquale

I haven't spelled this right probably... This is a small(ish) Italian
restaurant in the centre of Cambridge and they don't do muffins as such, but
their brownie was basically just a cuboid muffin. Anyway, it was large,
expensive, served with cream and lovely. I think that's all I have to say
about it. Obviously they wouldn't serve it with cream if you didn't eat it
inside. But I did cos it's a nice place. Slightly expensive and they didn't
take switch under £8 so only 7/10.

## Sainsburys

Everyone know who these people are. They are the saviors to all Cambridge
Students. I wouldn't say their muffins are up to much though. 75p each,
medium-sized, not much chocolate and a bit stale. Only 6/10 here.

Well, I used to have a bit here saying "To Be Contined". That was about a year
ago, and this is me continuing. Due to work (etc) I've not had much time to
venture further out into the great unkown for me that is the Cambridge Muffin
culture, but I thought I would round things off here, make it pretty, and add
more cake when I ate it. One day, I hope to have pictures :)

|Place of buyage | Price | Good things | Bad things | Mark |
|-
|Nadia's|80p|Scrummy|They have ways of making you buy more|9/10|
|Pembroke|£1|Near to where I live|Eugh|2/10|
|Millie's|£1.30|Chunky|Pricy|8/10|
|Don Pasquale|Lots more than anywhere else|Creamy|Wrong shape|7/10|
|Sainsbury's|75p|You can get steak and wine at the same time (woo, that rhymed)|Just a bit average|6/10|

Well, that just about wraps it up here. I hope everyone had a lovely time, but
there won't be souvenirs. I'm sorry.
