---
layout: post
title: "Brrrm! BRRRRRRRRRRRRRMMMMMM!"
---
Well, the inevitable happened. I bought a bike. Not one with pedals, oh no.
This one's got an engine.

It all started when I moved to [Ealing][1] and found out that I had to get to
[Old Street][2] and back every day. This is a long way. On the tube, it takes
over an hour to do the journey in rush hour and that's something that I'm
paying £116 a month for. I bought a new mountain bike recently, mostly because
my old one was stolen and part of me wondered if cycling would be a feasible
option. Doing several journey planners indicated that the route would be a
fairly simple 12 mile run each way.

I decided to test out my cycling theory a few weekends ago. From my house, I
got as far as Shepherd's Bush before deciding that the combination of London
pot holes, the unsuitability of a mountain bike to road riding and my general
level of unfitness made this idea a non-starter. As I waited by some traffic
lights next to about 3,000 scooters, I had an idea.

I could buy and run a 125cc motorbike for a lot less money per year than I was
spending on the tube. And my commute would be a lot faster. I did some
research - I was looking to be spending about £100 on the CBT, £2000 on a
bike, £400 on clothing and £300 on insurance. For something that would last me
at least 2 years and give me a significant return on the bike sale at the end
(should I want to), this was a lot better than going on the tube.

I booked and passed my CBT. It was a lot of slightly confusing fun - once I'd
got my head around the notion of braking with my right foot and delicate
clutch control with the left hand, I greatly enjoyed driving around Ealing at
a blistering 18mph. Amusingly, I was the only person on the session other than
the instructor, a trainee instructor who was observing and the DSA man doing a
spot-check on the instructor.

I decided I wanted a [Honda CBF125][3]. This is quite a recent bike, so the
used market is rather thin. After hunting through autotrader, I did find a
private ad for what seemed to be a perfect deal, but after phoning the guy was
told that I had missed it by about 10 minutes. I found a new one at a dealer
about 20 miles away, so went for a test and liked it. Paid just over £2k.

Now I just need to get it insured and then I go to pick it up on Thursday. A
new era involving not being depressed by the tube awaits.

   [1]: http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=ealing&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=50.956929,79.013672&ie=UTF8&z=13&iwloc=A

   [2]: http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&hl=en&geocode=&q=Old+Street&sll=51.513351,-0.304214&sspn=0.078948,0.154324&ie=UTF8&z=15&iwloc=A

   [3]: http://ww1.honda.co.uk/motorcycles/DispatcherServlet?hidAction=Lookup&hidActionDetail=view_introduction&hidMSGID=11&hidMSGCode=CC125&hidMSGName=125+CC&hidProductID=116&hidSelectedProductCode=CBF125&hidProductName=CBF125#focusHere

