---
layout: post
title: "Prague"
---
Christmas is coming. Again. While it may be a widely known fact that I've not
done nearly as much Christmas shopping as I should have, I've decided to
wrong-foot the entire UK-based price-inflated Christmas-tat-buying economy by
coming to Prague. A stroke of genius, if I say so myself.

It's rather nice here. I'm sat at breakfast in the hotel waiting for some late
(snoozy?) people and through the window I'm seeing the city in daylight for
the first time. People had said that this was a very pretty city, and it
really is rather nice. Even last night, when we decided to get lost on the way
from the airport and ended up trundling through the middle of the city in the
dark, it was all nice to look at.

I should talk about the hotel. For a small amount of money per night, I'm
getting a spacious, warm, comfy room with breakfast thrown in. But that's not
the best bit. The best bit's the view. The hotel's in the north-west part of
the city, near the castle and I believe it might actually be the same hill the
castle's on. The result is that as I munch on strange bread, strange butter,
strange cheese and lovely ham, I have an amazing view down the hill towards
the river and snow-covered old town.

My initial reaction when I heard 'Prague' was 'cheap!'. I was quickly told
that it wasn't as cheap as it used to be. On the basis of the price of beer
last night, I can only conclude that it must have been _really_ cheap.

This isn't a holiday as such. In the sense that I'm here on my own time and my
own money, it's a holiday. In the sense that I've got to go to a press
conference at the senate today, followed by a bunch of singing rehearsals
before eventually singing in the Cathedral to (amongst others) the Archbishop
and the Czech President, it's not a holiday.

So it's a holiday with a press conference. I've never been to a press
conference before. I might ask a question about cheese.
