---
layout: post
title: "The great disaster following publicity bandwagon"
---
There's been a disturbing set of events which has happened over the past few
days. [A train came off the tracks][1] in Cumbria, killing one person, which
is fairly disturbing in itself, but not what I'm referring to. I'm more
worried about the great media bandwagon that has now inevitably churned into
action.

What prompted me to be worried is the news in this morning's paper that one of
the crash survivors has "demanded answers" and wants the world to "prove that
rail travel is safe". Why is this headline news? Why is this person being
listened to? He, along with many others, survived the crash, which I agree is
a good thing, but how does this give him the right to "demand answers" from
the enquiry? Personally, I'm keen for the enquiry to actually come up with
some reasons behind what happened, because that's where the "learning" bit of
the "learning from mistakes" comes in. But I don't have a throng of reporters
outside my door waiting to hear about what I want. Why is this? It's because
I'm not a railway expert and therefore not really qualified to comment on the
railway, it's management structure, it's processes etc.

But wait a minute, this guy in my morning's paper isn't an expert either.
Somehow, he's managed to get the press to listen to him, _just because he was
a victim of the accident_. Now, I agree that questions like "What was it like"
and "How are you feeling" are valid questions to ask a crash survivor, because
I'd argue it's questions they're qualified to answer. Random demands for
"proof" that the railways are safe and that the enquiry produces "answers" are
nonsensical ramblings. Does this person (and the rest of the world) honestly
think "Oh, well, we were just going to bungle this enquiry and say nothing
much, but now a victim has demanded answers! Better pick up the phone and
actually try and figure this thing out then."?

Of course, there are industry commentators and analysts (for example,
[Christian Wolmar][2] whose columns I was reading years ago) who are in a
good, non-biased position to take an objective view of what happened and what
should be done about it. No doubt such experts are aware of rail standards and
guidelines, as well as other technical things like how points actually work.
So please, great media, report on what people with a clue are saying, not on
the fact that a person who was involved in an accident (and therefore has an
emotional involvement with the entire subject) is suddenly "demanding answers"
and may the god of the earth strike down every living person unless he gets
them.

Whilst I'm being cynical, I noticed [this article][3] on the BBC site, which
seems to be nothing more than a solicitor who has previously made money
representing train crash victims trying to drum up business around this
particularly incident. Why is this news? "Solicitor who makes a living from
train accidents demands inquiry (probably involving lots and lots of
solicitors/barristers/whatever) into train accident!". Shock horror. Who'd
have thought?

So please, can everyone stop being excited about the fact that people are
demanding things? The general public does care about the answer to the
question "What happened and why?" and there are groups of people who will work
for months trying to figure that one out as accurately as possible. Lets just
wait for the facts to come out and then get excited. Victims and lawyers
jumping up and down saying "OMG trains aren't safe someone must be to blame
for this who can we get money out of!?" really doesn't help anything.

   [1]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/6391633.stm

   [2]: http://www.christianwolmar.co.uk/

   [3]: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/6399347.stm

