---
layout: post
title: "On people, and crowds"
---
I'm currently waiting for Excel to crash, so this gives me some good rant
time.

I've had some time over the past few days / weeks to observe some strange
behaviour: people in crowds. Now, it is a well-established fact that the
intelligence of a group of people exponentially drops with the size of the
group, but this isn't what I mean. I'm referring to the way in which one
individual's actions can sometimes be completely logic-defying when in the
context of a group situation. Most of the times I've observed this, I happen
to have been travelling on a train, going somewhere.

For example, I was on a train travelling back to London from Manchester on a
Sunday afternoon. For those that don't know, this isn't exactly a quiet time
of the week for this particular route and the train was fairly full. The first
strange thing that happened was that everyone got out of their seat and piled
towards the door about 10 minutes before the train got anywhere near Euston.
Strange, irrational, but not entirely unexpected. What was shocking was the
person who decided that the best thing to do in an environment of around 50
people trying to get out the door was to dump his luggage on the platform
right in front of the door and then _fight his way back inside_. From my
position back in the queue of people trying to get off, this appeared to
happen at least twice, the final time I saw was when I was attempting to leap
onto the platform to find the guy seemingly surprised that there were all
these _people_ behind him, obviously not being courteous enough to let him get
all his bags off before anyone else.

Madness occurred again, this time on the tube on my way to work. I had a
weekend bag with me as well as my work bag, so I was taking up slightly more
space than the average person. I should explain that my tube journey every
morning is between London Bridge and Canary Wharf, and that you can be pretty
sure that of all the people on the tube between those two stations, 80% of
them got on at London Bridge, and 95% of them will be getting off at Canary
Wharf. Therefore, when one particular person who was sitting down decided to
stand up and push past absolutely everyone to get near the door so they could
get off at Canary Wharf, everyone was a little annoyed. Me more than most, as
I had to manoeuvre my bags around myself and the other nice patient people as
juggernaut-woman came crashing through.

Am I being petty? Probably. But you see, I hate it when people don't engage
any common sense and then promptly take hugely disruptive action which only
seems to achieve the goal of pointing out to the rest of the world that
they're not really thinking straight.

I think Excel has decided it has now, properly crashed. I shall try to
resurrect it, but I'm not optimistic.

