---
layout: post
title: "Morons. The lot of them."
---
I was in a peculiar position yesterday. I was reading one of the fine free
daily news publications with the word 'London' in the title on the train and I
happened to stumble upon the letters page. Now, usually the letters page of
something like the _Times_ is quite a good read, as it provides some
intelligent comment and debate from those inclined to write in. However, it
seems those of a somewhat less informed view on the world have taken it upon
themselves to write in to newspapers to demonstrate the level of their
understanding.

The first was a vegan. He seemed to be strongly pushing the idea that if
everyone stopped eating meat then we could solve the world's climate issues.
This argument had been 'raging' for a few days now, with the predictable
rebuttals of "vegetarians fart more" and "if we eat the cows, then they're not
contributing as much to the greenhouse effect as if we don't eat them". Both
sides of the argument have rather significant flaws in them, which would
indicate that this is very much a debate not worth having, at all. Ever. The
thing that really got to me was the way in which this particular sect of the
vegan movement have basically jumped on the popularity of the climate change
bandwagon in order to promote their own agenda. I couldn't care less if
someone decides they don't want to eat something, but it particularly bugs me
when people try to justify why the rest of the world should conform to their
thinking.

The second was a bit peculiar in that they rambled about mysterious
unspecified studies showing that porn encouraging rape. I'm not altogether
what this was in response to, but I think might be a little misguided.
Certainly fits my definition of 'moronic'.

My point is, that due to various things I had no mechanism by which to write
in to the paper and explain why such people look like idiots. I suppose this
may be a good thing as I find that the tactics behind editors' decisions over
what letters to print usually result in the most weird and minority opinions
being published. I'm looking forward to what they print on Monday.

