---
layout: post
title: "It's nearly Christmas, and I've run out of cash"
---
I've noticed recently that there's a common theme that occurs in life, or at
least, my life. I'll do something really expensive, e.g. move house, go on
holiday, walk past a chocolate shop etc. and then be completely surprised when
something necessarily expensive happens soon afterwards. This appears to be
happening at the moment, where most of the expense of moving house, sorting
out bills etc is hitting my just at the time when I want to start thinking
about saving for Christmas. As a result, I've worked out how much I can allow
myself to spend in November and it's got a minus sign in front of it. Not
good.

Still, this time of year does have various pleasantries that make it
worthwhile. I went to Alexandra Palace last night to see a rather good
fireworks thingie. Being billed as "the biggest display London's ever seen",
it was a little amusing that during the display, you could see the slightly
bigger and more expensive display going on at Victoria (I think) in the
background. At least I know where to go next year.

I've also been having email issues. A while back, I decided that running my
own email server-thing was far too complicated and that I should just leave it
down to Google. No more having to back up email, no more playing with spam
filters, GMail would sort everything out for me. This was especially
attractive given the rumour that Google were soon to provide IMAP capabilities
to GMail. I was happy, for about a month. Then the spam started to roll in. I
eventually arrived at the conclusion that GMail's spam filtering is crap. I
get a *lot* of spam per day (about 3,500 messages in a last few days alone)
and evidently GMail isn't good enough to be able to filter out really obvious
stuff. So I packed it in, and gone back to running my own server. I might have
to spend more frustrating time fixing it when it breaks, but at least I can
tune the spam filter once and then forget about it.

On another note, I'm doing some research into [Lighttpd][1]. I'm using that at
home on virtual boxes with practically no memory and it's hugely faster than
apache. Might try and host this site on there and run some tests.

I'm now off to spend no money in Waitrose.

   [1]: http://www.lighttpd.net/

