---
layout: post
title: "Tidyfest"
---

I almost forgot - my [camera lens broke]({% post_url /2007/2007-02-17-we-re-all-going-on-a-windy-holiday %}) last month
and I never said what the outcome was. Anyway, I managed to go to the Jessops place I'd bought it from, explained how
I'd lost my receipt and without even flinching just printed me off another one. Bearing in mind I bought it 13 months
beforehand, I found this quite impressive. Not technologically, but the way that I wasn't made to fill out endless forms
and wait 28 days - they just did it there and then.

Anyway, the reason I needed my receipt was because I had phoned up [Sigma UK][2] who had said that they would honour the
warranty, despite it being amonth out, as long as I had my receipt. Again, score on the customer servicesfront. I
promptly put the lens in a box and mailed it to them (Monday),thinking that I'd not see it for 6 weeks. I got a letter
shortly afterwardsconfirming exactly what I'd sent them (lens, lens cap, filter, box, receipt,etc) which was nice. 5
days after I sent it (Friday), I received it back, witha completely replaced zoom and focus mechanism. Sigma therefore
get mytotally-awesome-customer-service-award-thing for 2007. It also means I don'thave to spend a lot of money on a new
one and can instead spend that onsomething more meaningful, like cookies.

In other news, I'm trundling along with work, thinking of learning to drive(again) and doing a bit of maintenance to the
site. Hopefully the snippetswill have colour syntax highlighting soon, as soon as I figure out a good wayto do it.

[2]: http://www.sigma-imaging-uk.com/
