---
layout: post
title: "BT. Unfail?"
---
Lets be frank. Me an BT have a [bit of][1] [a bad history][2], especially when
it comes to moving house. It was with slight anxiety that I picked up the
phone to call BT's "Home mover" department to inform them that, once again, I
was moving house.

Brief interlude: I'm moving house! Some point in February it turns out. It's
as close to being a done deal without actually being a legally done deal, so
I'm currently dividing my time between wandering aimlessly around John Lewis
or looking at gardening catalogues. This must be what being middle-aged
perpetually feels like. I'm rapidly learning that houses are quite expensive,
and also bring me daily joy in finding surprisingly new and innovative ways of
being expensive. My way of coping with all of this is through a combination of
selling random things, daydreaming and trying to forget about the fact that my
current landlord is holding a fairly hefty deposit with my name on it.
Hopefully, that'll be a nice surprise when (if) it turns up.

I was saying something about BT. Oh yes. It seems they've got better. Someone
answered the phone after two rings, and merrily explained to me that because I
know I'm moving house they don't have to charge me for taking them by
surprise. Everything appears sorted, although experience tells me there's a
lot that can go wrong yet. We will see.

   [1]: /2007/10/01/that-back-breaking-lugging-all-my-stuff-across-london-time-of-year-again.html

   [2]: /2007/10/12/bt-fail.html
