---
layout: post
title: "Tidyfest"
---
I almost forgot - my [camera lens broke][1] last month and I never said what
the outcome was. Anyway, I managed to go to the Jessops place I'd bought it
from, explained how I'd lost my receipt and without even flinching just
printed me off another one. Bearing in mind I bought it 13 months beforehand,
I found this quite impressive. Not technologically, but the way that I wasn't
made to fill out endless forms and wait 28 days - they just did it there and
then.

Anyway, the reason I needed my receipt was because I had phoned up [Sigma
UK][2] who had said that they would honour the warranty, despite it being a
month out, as long as I had my receipt. Again, score on the customer services
front. I promptly put the lens in a box and mailed it to them (Monday),
thinking that I'd not see it for 6 weeks. I got a letter shortly afterwards
confirming exactly what I'd sent them (lens, lens cap, filter, box, receipt,
etc) which was nice. 5 days after I sent it (Friday), I received it back, with
a completely replaced zoom and focus mechanism. Sigma therefore get my
totally-awesome-customer-service-award-thing for 2007. It also means I don't
have to spend a lot of money on a new one and can instead spend that on
something more meaningful, like cookies.

In other news, I'm trundling along with work, thinking of learning to drive
(again) and doing a bit of maintenance to the site. Hopefully the snippets
will have colour syntax highlighting soon, as soon as I figure out a good way
to do it.

   [1]: /news/comments/we-re-all-going-on-a-windy-holiday/

   [2]: http://www.sigma-imaging-uk.com/

