---
layout: post
title: "Best Man: 2008"
---
## Friday - London

I decided to write this on Monday night, so everything up to then is just
memory.

London was an exciting place to start BEST MAN. Full of character, and
conveniently in the same country as the residence of everyone involved, it
seemed perfect. The exact meeting point was described as 'Trafalgar Square'
but those of you who have been there before will know that this is a fairly
large area. As a result, at least 10 minutes were spent trying to get everyone
together in vaguely the correct place. However, unity eventually triumphed and
we were briefed on our first challenge by the DIRECTORY, AS, CC and DC. Like
all the best challenges, it was simple: run from the square to the start of
the Mall, when we would get to choose a spoon to use in the forthcoming egg-
and-spoon race down the aforementioned Mall. We were lined up in order by the
National Portrait Gallery amidst crowds of blinking tourists, and then the
race was officially started. I headed into an early lead before hitting upon a
brilliant tactic of getting lost.

{% include image.html alt="Oooo a map!" src="/assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/best-man-2008-1.jpg" %}

As you can see from this wonderful image, this is quite an achievement given
the small distances involved. The upside of getting lost is that at least one
other contender trusted me and we both got lost together. Eventually, I got to
the spoon-choosing step in 4th. Consequently, my spoon selection was limited,
but I ended up with what I thought was a reasonable choice - not too large.
The challenge began soon after.

Let me say this. The mall is not a short road. It is in fact a long way. It is
an especially long way when you're carrying lots of stuff, and an egg on a
spoon. Despite an early lead, I succumbed to pain and had to settle for
second. However, we were off the mark. 4 points to me. We raced to Victoria
station to catch a 22:30 coach to our next destination: Amsterdam.

## Saturday - Amsterdam

I really like Amsterdam. It's tiny, but there's so many amazing things that
can be found just from wandering about. Unfortunately, I'd only be there a day
and I didn't think we'd have much time for sightseeing. Getting to Amsterdam
involved a slightly hellish 12 hour coach journey upon which we were set the
second chellange. "Know your Groom" was a good attempt to separate the BEST
MEN from each other based on how much they knew about AS. Questions varied
from various aspects of childhood through to certain antics at university. A
low point was reached when only one person could correctly identify AS's date
of birth. Still, we soldiered on. Once arrived, we meandered over to the
hostel on the edge of town. Our next challenge was exciting and simple. In 2
hours, find as many things in the city from a given list as possible. We'd be
in pairs for this and I hit the jackpot, being paired with the sporty yet wise
JB. He hit on a brilliant idea of spending the first 10 minutes asking the
hostel person where on the map each thing was. Not everything was a place: in
amongst the churches and other buildings were things like 'a woman riding side
saddle', which we pretty much abandoned from the start. Still, we had a route
planned, and two hours isn't a long time. We ran, a lot. See the image below,
and if you're keen / bored, you can even download a GPS trace of our route
(apologies for the anomolous data points, not sure how they got there).

{% include image.html alt="Another map!" src="/assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/best-man-2008-2.jpg" %}

[Google Earth (.kml)][3]

When we got to the end, we had covered about 9 miles, which is significantly
more than anyone else and had enough wins in it to secure first place.
Tragically, JB fessed up some hours later to owning an illegal map and had all
his points deducted.

The final challenge of the day was a good idea and very suited to the city. A
simple surveillance exercise in which we had to follow the merry couple
without being seen, and take notes about what they did. A good idea, in
principle, was ruined by the weather. The rain conspired to smudge most of my
notes meaning that instead of handing a nice dry stack of notes, I had to
submit a soggy papery mess. This resulted in me doing badly in this challenge.
Very badly.

With the first full day over, we were slightly thankful to find a real bed.
6am start the next day.

## Sunday - Brussels / Lille

Every day has a theme. Whilst Saturday's theme was 'information gathering',
today's can only really be described as 'talking to strangers'.

We got an early train to Brussels and subsequently got totally confused by the
Brussels public transport system. Our task was simple. In three hours, collect
as many signatures for a petition as possible. It was left entirely up to us
what the petition actually was and where to go and get signatures. Again we
were in pairs, this time I was with the bearded JT. As he and I at that moment
were in first and second place in the points standings, he suggested the
tactical move of 'not really bothering with this one'. It was tough. There was
chocolate and ice cream all around and neither of us wanted to spend time
talking to strange foreign people who we feared may take offence. We dithered
in various cafes for a good hour and a half before deciding that a bit of
effort might be a good thing. Suddenly, we noticed one of the other teams who
seemed to also be nervous about talking to strangers and adopting a similar
strategy to our own. Assuming that they had, in fact, adopted the same 'cafe'
strategy as us, we concluded that to come second in this chellange we only had
to beat them. We shifted from a 'cafe' strategy to a 'find English people'
strategy. On a summer Sunday morning in Brussels, this worked rather well. A
solid second place was achieved with about 12 signatures for the petition 'We
the undersigned think that Brussels is very very good'. Special mention needs
to be made for the winners, who managed to collect 120 signatures. We have no
idea how they achieved this feat as they were very reluctant to talk about it
afterwards.

The afternoon saw us leave Brussels for Lille. We knew we could only be in
Lille for a couple of hours as there was another train to catch later that
night. The challenge was explained. Titled the 'talking to girls challenge' it
was another simple idea. In 13 minutes we had to get as many girls to say
their name and nationality into a video camera. I got my French phrase
perfected (including the subjunctive) and succeeded in having an intelligent
conversation in French with a lady who didn't seem to understand how to say
'My name is' in French. That, coupled with some miserable looks of confusion
led me to believe that the French are fundamentally grumpy people. I needed
English people. I won't got into details, but I was doing rather well until a
confidence-crushing, soul-destroying encounter which left me virtually unable
to complete the challenge. I limped back in a tired 4th place. At least I
wasn't last.

The train was waiting. I had slipped down the leaderboard, but was still in
the main pack chasing the table leaders. We collected our reservations and
headed for Dijon.

## Monday - Dijon

It was cold and raining, which not what what you expect from France in August.
It was in a slightly grumpy mood that I got up in the Morning to find that
today would involve a combination of rain and physical exertion. Our first
challenge though, was not physical. We would go to an art gallery, and in each
room attempt to pick out AS's first, second and third choices for his
favourite thingemebob. This was hard, due to a combination of AS having no
taste in art and his tendency to sometimes pick out the furniture rather than
the pictures. Naturally I did badly, and came last for the morning.

The afternoon saw the introduction of BEST MAN Olympics. We went to the beach.
We also got distracted by mini golf, which took slightly longer than expected.
AS played a pivotal role in the mini golf challenge by setting the par, or
'Stevo', for the course. However, given that points were awarded based on
relative and not absolute performance, this had no impact on the final result.
Overall, kit was probably the best mini-golf course I have ever played. I
finished "2 over Stevo", a comfortable second place behind the magnificent "11
under Stevo" attained by MH. Having been straggling in previous challenges,
this was starting to look like a comeback. Whilst the others finished, I
sauntered down to the cafe place to eat bucket-loads of celebratory ice cream.
I had just finished this and was wallowing around like a beached whale when it
was announced that the next BEST MAN Olympic event was to be a run down to the
beach (~750m). Let me be the first to point out that I am not a runner. I am
less of a runner after ice cream. However, it turns out that 4 of my
competitors are even worse than me, even factoring the celebratory ice cream
into the equation. A consistent 2nd place was therefore secure.

The events proceeded fairly rapidly after this. The next challenge was to dig
the deepest beach hole in 5 minutes. This is more difficult than it might at
first seem especially when I say that there were no digging implements
provided. MH scored a brave victory here, but not without the drawing a blood.
Dedication! The third Olympic challenge was much like the first: a simple race
to swim to a jetty and back as fast as possible. Given that I can run a lot
better than I can swim, I gave up after an embarrassing incident involving my
trunks bailing out on me and the realisation that I probably wouldn't make it
there and back. There was an amusing moment where BE pushed off on the return
in entirely the wrong direction which gave the impression that he had just got
bored at the halfway point and wandered off. MH won this again. The final
challenge was the "throwing a rock into the circle". As ever, more difficult
than it looked. Especially when the rock was lost and had to be hastily
replaced. I did badly, again.

When everything was added up, we found that we were cold and that I had
finished 3rd. Not bad. We ambled back to the station to catch the sleeper to
Florence.

## Tuesday - Florence

The main thing that I'm beginning to notice about this trip is the oddity of
the language. I'm about a day behind - I spent most of my time in France
talking English, and most of today in Italy talking French. Tomorrow, I expect
to be making up Italian in front of bemused strangers.

Florence is amazing. It has these cool tiny buses that only seat about 4, and
therefore never seem to be taking anyone anywhere. We arrived, usefully, at
the wrong station thus prompting another train just to get to the big main
station. The grand central station itself seems to have been built in 1930 in
a blaze of extravagance and then not looked at since. Proper falling apart
slightly musty Italian style. Still, after getting lost on the way to the
Uffitzi, we arrived to be presented with some paper and a pencil and told that
we had 30 minutes to draw the 'fake David' statue. I can't really draw, so
this was tricky. The idea was that afterwards, we each had to present our
efforts in front of the statue whilst random tourists were asked which they
preferred. Surprisingly, due to a combination of my combatants feeble efforts
and a group of excitable Japanese tourists, I nearly won.

We moved onto the bulk of the day, which involved making a video documentary
about Florence without any editing or retakes. Seemingly fairly simple, in
practise this took a lot of rehearsal and a long time. The end result was far
from polished, but this was another case of only needing to be good enough.
Many odd shots of accordion players were taken during this.

The final challenge was a blind ice cream flavour identifying test. There was
a lot at stake, and very little information. As it turned out, the flavours
being rather obscure helped me. A lucky early guess at "yoghurt" gave me a
vital point that ensured joint first on that and pushed me into first place at
the end of the day.

Another late sleeper train to catch, destination Munich.

## Wednesday - Munich / Innsbruck

I've only ever been to Germany once before, and that was to Hamburg back on
the school exchange. I already knew that I wasn't going to be doing German for
GCSE, so spent the entire time speaking English. This, along with only a
year's worth of not paying any attention in German class itself meant that I
was slightly apprehensive about heading from the unintelligible sounds of
Italy into the equally unintelligible sounds of Germany.

I did however learn a useful trick. The only phrase you need to get by is
'Haben sie ...'. After that, you can just reel off English words with 'isich'
and 'gegangen' on the end, punctuated by the occasional 'ein'. Seeing as I
never ended up with something that I hadn't actually asked for, I can only
conclude that this is how German works.

The most striking thing about our arrival was the contrast between the railway
termini of Munich and Florence. We had departed the previous night from a
large, ugly, empty, grubby, badly maintained concrete building and arrived in
a large, ugly, bustling, clean, steel and glass building. The fact that the
German station was covered in bright advertising with plenty of shops, whilst
the Italian station was similarly sized, but with a single lonely food shop
leads to a self-evident conclusion: Germans are better at railways than
Italians.

Our challenge for the day was a race. We started at an Internet Cafe near the
centre and were given a clue to the next place. We would then have to race
there and back, before getting the next clue. Paired with MB, we leapt into an
early lead. However, this was shattered by an unfortunate choice of word on a
clue which lead us around 3 miles from the city centre and about 3.1 miles
from where we needed to be. Having lost over 30 minutes, we fought back,
bravely downing beer and climbing tall towers wherever appropriate and managed
to rescue 20 minutes to finish second. It was a brave effort of which I am
personally proud. Finally meeting back at the station, we took an afternoon
train to Innsbruck where we found a rather nicely-furnished hostel which
included amongst its entertainment options: a pool table with no cues, a
dartboard with only two darts, a table tennis table with no paddles and a
table football with no ball. Oh the fun we had. We were off somewhere else in
the morning, so after stocking up on hyper-cheap coke, we slept.

## Thursday - Vaduz

I got up filled with excitement. We were going to a country I had never been
to before!

There was an early train to Feldkirch, a town just east of the Austria-
Liechtenstein border. From there, we would catch a bus to Vaduz,
Liechtenstein's capital. Despite being the world's sixth smallest country and
barely bigger than Manhattan in New York, the country appeared to have its own
post service, bus service and beach volleyball tournament. Reading the
guidebook revealed a number of oddities in the country's history, such as the
fact that it was purchased by the Liechtenstein family, sent its army of 80
men to fight WW2 (all of whom came back, along with an extra Italian 'friend')
and is now the world's largest exporter of dentures.

Our challenge was cultural - to capture the spirit of Liechtenstein in only 10
photos. My companion for this challenge (BE) and I both decided that we didn't
really want to do a lot of walking. Existing as it does in the hilly bit of
Europe, a lot of it is quite steep. Instead, we thought we'd eat a lot and
then take some abstract pictures about which we could waffle. At some point, I
hit upon the brilliant idea of taking pictures of postcards , cropping out any
text. My cunning plan was unravelled when the powers that were overheard me
saying this and threatened heavy penalties. After taking some artsy photos, we
eventually came joint second (joint last), probably because we didn't try very
hard.

Taking the bus across the border into Switzerland, we discovered a whole new
currency and a new odd combination of language. Here was a country where
people babbled in German, thanked each other in French and then waved goodbye
in Italian. We decided to just go with English. Despite missing the train at
Buchs, we eventually wound up at a flat underneath Europe's tallest free-fall
waterfall in Lauterbrunen. It's an impressive thing.

## Friday - Lauterbrunen

Friday was meant to be a rest day. However, this was only partly true due to
the preparations for the final on Saturday. We went and had good steak up the
valley where the "sculpt a crazy monster out of blutack and cocktail sticks"
challenge took place. This was followed swiftly by the yoga challenge. I
failed at both, miserably.

Back at the flat, we were given details on the Final. Conceptually, it was
very simple: climb the [Lauberhorn][4]. At 2434m up, it's not the largest of
any of the summits around, but it's a lot bigger than anything you might find
in the UK. The interest in this challenge was in the fact that there weere 6
permitted routes, all involving some combination of walking, train and cable
car. Each route involved getting to Kleine Scheidegg somehow and then hiking
to the top. The winner of the week's challenges would get first choice, second
got second etc. I had come third, so needed my favourite three routes. I could
pick a route already chosen, but the rules stipulated that I would have to
wait 30 mins after everyone else before setting off. The afternoon was taken
with much planning and the checking of train times to make sure connections
worked. At 11pm, the great route-choosing-announcement was made.

Annoyingly the two ahead of me picked my two favourite routes, so I had to go
for my least preferred out of the non-crazy three. This involved walking to
Lauterbrunen station, taking a train up to Wenig and then a ~6Km walk to
Kleine Scheidegg. Everyone, bar MH picked a different route, so it was going
to be interesting what the final outcome was. An early morning called for an
early night.

## Saturday - Lauterbrunen / Lauberhorn

In the morning, CC took everyone's lunch order and went to go buy it from the
supermarket. Meanwhile everyone else stood round strategising. I knew I had a
good 34 minutes between the start time (9:30) and my train, and had to cover
what was described as a 20 minute walk in that time. There was a 9:39, but I
really didn't feel like running a 20 min walk in 9 minutes at the start of the
day. I was therefore slightly annoyed to find that it only took me 12 minutes
to cover the distance at a leisurely pace, and I watched the 9:39 leave.

The train took about 15 minutes, during which I realised I had left my water
at the station. Clearly, I had to get some more, so wasted 10 minutes at
Wengen getting cash and water before setting off. I was disheartened to find a
sign pointing the direction of Kleine Scheidegg saying '2hrs 40 mins' - I had
expected to cover it in 1hr 30mins. The going was steep. There was a lot of
height to cover it was getting hotter. The time passed surprisingly quickly
and I got to Wengenalp much faster in my head than I had been expecting.
However, I then received a phone call saying that the front two were already
there and had been for some time. Everyone was being held for a fixed time at
Kleine Scheidegg due to AS missing a bus. We would start for the summit in the
same order and time gap that we had arrived at Kleine Scheidegg.

Disheartened, I pushed on. It took about 20 mins to cover the final distance.
When I got there, I found that I had come in 4th behind JB, and 50 mins behind
MB, in the lead. I checked the GPS and found that it had taken me 1hr 50mins
to cover about 8.5Km, which given the height, I thought was quite impressive.
It was clear though that for my route to be successful I needed to have caught
the early train and been a lot quicker uphill. Still, we waited for about an
hour before setting everyone off to the summit. MB went first, with JT in
second following 10 minutes later. Meanwhile, with a significant amount of
time to wait, the remaining 4 of us decided to revolt and just climb together,
with our respective penalties determining our final places.

It was a fairly tough climb and took just over an hour. That said, it was
wholly worth it for the views. MB had won, with JT making up 9 of the 10
minute gap to come a minute behind in second. I was deemed to have finished
fourth. Utterly exhausted, we picked our way back down the mountain to Kleine
Scheidegg. We found a bar. Got a bit drunk and watched the sun set.

Here's what my final route looked like when plotted on Google Earth:

{% include image.html alt="Maps are great" src="/assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/best-man-2008-3.jpg" %}

{% include image.html alt="GPS involves magic things in space, don't you know" src="/assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/best-man-2008-4.jpg" %}

[Google Earth (.kml) - Route up to Kleine Scheidegg][7]

[Google Earth (.kml) - Route to summit][8]

## Epilogue

We got home, eventually. Somehow, we managed to get to Milan for lunch, then
the airport, then Gatwick, then home. Sunburnt, I had to work the next day so
didn't get much time to recuperate. Still, I think I was pleased with the
result. At least I was now relieved of any further organisational
responsibilities and could sit back and enjoy the endless parties that would
follow. It also meant that I didn't have to give a speech at the wedding.

There's talk of a sequel. There always is. The question is what prize could
possibly beat this?

   [3]: /assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/20080802_115257.kml

   [4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lauberhorn

   [7]: /assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/20080809_102339.kml

   [8]: /assets/img/2008-09-22-best-man-2008/20080809_142438.kml
