---
layout: post
title: "I think I want a new latop, but I'm not really sure why"
---
I've been doing a bit of thinking recently about getting a new laptop. I've
never really owned my own laptop before, and using the office one for personal
projects is a bit inconvenient. After watching everyone around me buy huge
shiny MacBooks, a feeling has precipitated in my mind about exactly what I
**don't** want in a laptop. Namely something big, expensive and heavy.

Don't get me wrong, I admire the quality and the engineering that goes into
something like a MacBook Pro. I admire the expertise that's gone into turning
BSD into OS X. I just don't want to pay for it, or carry it around.

The logical place to look at this point is the [Asus Eee][1]. This is on its
third revision or so by now, and actually has a decent screen res (1024x600 on
the latest), 20Gb of space, upgradable RAM, and most importantly a teeny form-
factor and price tag. Now I know a lot of people get worked up, because the
original Eee was very cheap, and the latest one is a bit more expensive, but
to be honest I don't really care. It's cheaper than I'd expect to pay for
something that small.

I have a number of issues which prevent me from running out there and getting
an Eee. Firstly, the battery life. It sucks. Officially it's 2 hours 30
minutes, but many reviews are putting it at under 2 hours. This really isn't
very good - I think I read a comment somewhere that said the problem would be
a lot better if they supplied a separate battery charger. Presumably so that
you can buy two batteries, and charge one up whilst using the other one. A
reasonable point, but I still don't want to carry spare batteries to the park
with me.

Secondly, they're just about to bring out a version which has the Intel Atom
CPU in it. Now, this may do wonders for the battery life, which is a good
thing. However, it's not out until June, so I'll see what happens then.

Thirdly, everyone else is jumping on the bandwagon. I played with an [HP
UMPC][2] the other day, and I was impressed. It ran Vista, had a huuuuge
amount of space in it, and a crazy screen resolution. However, as a result,
the screen was practically unreadable, the battery life was still crap, and it
got very very hot. Still, a good first go. The one I'm really keeping my eye
on is the [MSI Wind][3]. Same price as the Eee Atom, but better specced. 6
hour battery life as well. If the reviews of these are good, I might just get
one.

   [1]: http://eeepc.asus.com/

   [2]: http://www.engadget.com/2008/02/19/hps-umpc-2133-revealed/

   [3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MSI_Wind_PC

