---
layout: post
title: "I hate estate agents"
---
So, I've moved house. This on its own is a good thing as I now have a lot more
room to put stuff and live in a nicer place. However, when I combine these
upsides with the sheer awfulness of having to physically move my stuff, get
screwed over by estate agents and be surrounded by a web of general
incompetence, I start to feel that this was a bad idea.

Getting movers in to move my stuff was a good plan. In an astonishingly short
amount of time, they had emptied the old place of all boxes and furniture
before racing over to the new flat and dumping it all in the lounge. Expensive
people, but very much worth the money. This is where the goodness stopped.
Despite the agents promising us that all the existing furniture could be
removed, a quick call to the landlord after we moved revealed that this was
not the case. I now have 4 sofas (plus lots of other stuff) in my lounge, and
I don't particularly want 2 of them. In theory, the agent is sorting this out,
but given their tendency to lie to everyone about everything, I've half a mind
to just dump it on the pavement outside and declare it to be not my problem.

The other calamity is cleaning. Most tenancy agreements require you to clean a
place before you move out, and promise a professional clean before you move
in. The previous tenants obviously didn't clean before they moved out, and no
clean was done before I moved in. So now I'm in the fantastic situation of
being unable to unpack to allow the cleaners to come this week and do
something. I'm sleeping on the floor. I'm not happy.

Legally, I'm not sure where I stand. I'll see where things are by the end of
the week.

