---
layout: post
title: "Flowcharts and YOU!"
---
I had a strange new year. It was lovely, but a bit weird. After dribbling over
to Victoria to see a few people, we decided that it would be good to find
somewhere in town to watch the fireworks. Hesitantly, we ventured out at about
11:30pm. Myself, I had a quaint picture in my mind of sitting by the river in
an isolated spot with a great view of what was going on. Reality, however, had
other ideas.

After establishing that Parliament square was closed and that lots of drunk
people weren't happy about this, we decided to go to St James Park to find a
friendly bridge. In the end, we got a partial view of the fireworks, which was
still quite good considering that half an hour before we were somewhere warm.
Oddly, we were surrounded by large numbers of Americans who seemed to be
trying a little too hard to be happy, and not necessarily always succeeding.
One seemed to be bitter that she had been waiting there for "over an hour" and
that me coming along with moments to spare with my "big" and "noisy" camera
was "annoying". I thought better of saying anything back just in case she
decided to bomb and then subsequently invade my face. I made up for it by
loudly forgetting the words to Auld Lang Syne whilst the assorted foreigners
looked on with mild amusement and, in some cases, fear.

The wonder of work is back with me now, and I have at least 2 flowcharts in my
peripheral vision. I think both must be important.

*edit* I've decided to never ever ever ever again work with Sharepoint /
Infopath. How can something with so much promise turn out to be so crap?
Actually, "so crap" makes it sound not so bad as I'm used to ranting about
things. However, Microsoft have managed to invent something that makes the
phrase "easy to use" even less truthful than "oceans are dry".

