---
layout: post
title: "New stuff! Again!"
---
After sitting down and deciding that I should put new stuff onto the site, I
remembered that I'd managed to do some cool things with time lapse videos. I
first had the idea for doing them a little while back after discovering that
Canon make a program through which you can remote control a digital camera,
assuming it's plugged in. I soon mastered the technique:

  1. Take a picture

  2. Wait a bit

  3. Repeat

After doing one or two and generally getting the hang of it, I did a few here
and there. Some were crap, some were ok - I put the ok ones up in the magic
videos section. At some point I'll put pictures as the links instead of
text showing exactly what's going on. Can't be arsed at the moment.

Now I'm going to talk about my day.

First thing I found out this morning is that my project has raised a purchase
order of around 246,000.00 CHF (that's 108,761.48 GBP according to
[xe.com][1]) of which about half was for the wrong stuff. Whether that money
has been spent yet, I don't know. Anyway, I've now got to figure out exactly
how many licences for Microsoft SQL server I need bearing in mind they come in
two different flavours (one about £5k and the other being about £15k). This
might not even be my job. Bleh. At lunch, I decided to organise an abseil down
the side of some Canary Wharf building because I have to raise £500 or so
before I go to Sri Lanka on the 22nd March. Might be April. Can't remember.
That should be fun in any case. My afternoon was interesting, because it
centred around pushing my project in a whole new direction based on the fact
that it was actually possibly going to cost a hell of a lot in terms of
bandwidth. Little did I know that an IM system of around 70,000 users needs
rather a lot of bandwidth. So next week is going to be fun.

And I'm getting seriously pissed off with this keyboard. I will actually break
it. Maybe. I'll buy a new one first. Yes.

   [1]: http://www.xe.com
