---
layout: post
title: "Right. Finally."
---
Well, here I am, new house and everything. It's actually fairly cool, what
with all the floors (4) and rooms (millions) that we have between us (6). The
moving process was an interesting one. It started with the usual "Argh, the
bills, the bills" process which involved me trying to convince about 17
different companies that I was moving house. This was an interesting project.
It's still not done actually, about 13 days after I've moved in, British Gas
have no idea how much to bill me as I've not told them any meter readings yet.
Should really do that at some point. Yes. Hmm...

Following that, there was the wonderful stage of "moving stuff". Now for me,
this is easy. I accumulate very little stuff, and so one smallish car-load was
sufficient to get most of the stuff I wanted from the old house (Stratford) to
the new one (Greenwich). However, my adorable people-I-live-with decided that
I should take the stuff I didn't want to take as well (fair enough) and some
of the furniture I had inadvertently bought over the past year (again, fair
enough). And so another 2 trips resulted because of this. This was made more
interesting by the closure of the Blackwall tunnel at some point during this
sunny Saturday afternoon. Anyway, with everything in the house, there came the
usual 'discussions' about who was going to sleep where, but that was sorted
out fairly quickly.

So now, I just have to wait for the entire thing to be finished off. Which
involves waiting until about October 21st for the bed and all the bedroom
furniture to be delivered. I'm currently living on a sofa-like thing and keep
my clothes either in bags, or on make-shift hangers. On the flip side, I'm
living in a great place with an economy that seems to be supported entirely by
tourist shops, clothes shops and restaurants.

Joy at work too. I finished my unofficial placement and have moved into
training which lasts about 4 weeks. Currently about one and a half weeks in,
and so far I've learned to count to ten in Japanese without even realising it
which is quite impressive. Aside from that, I think I'm being taught how to be
both a project manager and a business analyst (possibly at the same time?) and
it's something I've yet to decide whether I'm enjoying it or not. The free
restaurant lunches provided by the training centre are currently swinging it
towards the 'Aye'.

Annoyingly I have to keep a workbook of everything I've learned each bright
and sunny day. Like that's going to be useful...

