---
layout: post
title: "Not again."
---
Bag is packed, I'm 2 hours from being able to check-in online, seat is
picked:I'M GOING TO NEW YORK!!!!!!! (again) This is getting slightly tiresome.

On another note, I had an (interesting to some, dull to others) experience
with a new 300Gb hard disk, which I shall now relate, in order to keep up
appearences that I'm much more of a geek than is actually true.

I bought a 300Gb hard disk. They're quite cheap - about £114 from [Dabs][2].
Seeing as it's SATA, I also decided I needed a SATA. So it turned up, I bought
some long SATA cables as I have an odd case and the normal one wouldn't reach,
made sure the server kernel was compiled to know what the hell it was, was
relieved to see that my power supply already had funny SATA power connectors
and I didn't need to buy any more, and plugged it in. Lilo complained about
something, so I cursed for a bit and booted from a cd. The Gentoo 2005.0
LiveCD! crashed whilst doing a device autoconfigure. This, I thought, was odd,
and probably very bad. After a little bit of head-scratching and passing 5
million arguments to the boot thing, telling it not to do the autoconfigure, I
had it working.Seeing that lilo is bad and that grub is good, I deleted one
and installed the other. After rebooting, everything was fine, except it
didn't see the new drive. It saw the controller, it didn't see the drive.
Thinking that the most frustrating thing would be buying something, waiting a
week to put it in and finding it's dead on a friday night 9 days before I'd
see an open UK post office, I cursed some more. Then I went to bed.

In the morning, I decided to start anew, and turned it on. This time, it did
something different. The BIOS found the card, loaded it's BIOS, and then
proceded to add the disk. So it wasn't dead, it was just tired and needed a
good night's sleep. The problem was, the BIOS was adding the new disk as first
in the queue, and the other 2 SCSI disks after that. This means when grub was
told to look "on the second disk" for the kernel, it got confused, because the
"second disk" was now the "third disk". I put the cd back in and booted off
that. The problem now was in the ordering of the disks. SATA and SCSI are both
seen to be equivalent in the eyes of linux. Every disk also has a letter - a
is the first etc. Everything that needs to talk to a physical disk talks to
the right letter. If you put a new one in first, everything else gets shuffled
up one, and you have to change everything that talks to a physical disk to
point it at the next one in the queue, as the disk it was meant to talk to has
now moved one down the queue. Anyway, I told grub to stop being stupid and to
look on the third disk, and rebooted. It still said it had no idea what I was
talking about. Turns out, for reasons completely unknown, that whilst the BIOS
adds the new disk to the front of the queue, linux figures everything out, and
rearranges it to how it was before.

Finally, I got it working. By hitting it with a stick. The main aim of all
this was to tell of the torment of the process I had to go through to enable
me to burn every dvd I own to my server, which means I can pick and choose to
watch any dvd I want on anything in the house, without even touching the dvd
itself. Useful.I hope everyone enjoyed that. :)

   [2]: http://www.dabs.com"

