---
layout: post
title: "More themey goodness..."
---
Yes! That's right! It's another stylesheet! This one's not going to rotate for
a while, and is in a sort of beta whilst I fix various markup issues. Hope
everyone likes it.

Now to the subject of hate mail.

I bought my apple keyboard as everyone knows. The problem is, it didn't work.
What followed was a slightly hilarios saga involving me travalling to places
unnecessarily and being in the interesting position of having two keyboards at
once.

I phoned them up and I shouted at them saying it was faulty and didn't work.
Basically, some (most) keys would double type when I pressed them. Ssoo I
endedd up withh loots of worrds loooooking likee tthis. Which is a pain when
you're coding. Anyway, I got an RMA number, and was completely unsurprised to
find I had to post it back to Holland. After negotiating with them for many
hours, they finally agreed to pay my shipping cost to send the thing back.
This was last Friday. Foolishly, I remembered that there's an Apple shop in
[Regent Street][1] and knowing that Apple are the sort of company that like to
treat their customers well, I thought I'd pay them a visit to see if I could
swap it there. After spending the best part of an hour battling my way to the
west end from Canary Wharf, I was bluntly told that, despite me standing in an
Apple shop holding a broken Apple keyboard, they would not take it back
because I bought it from the web shop. The thought of buying a keyboard from
the shop and then returning the other one straight afterwards didn't occur to
me at that moment, but I wish now I had done it. Disheartened, I went home.

On Monday, a strange thing happened. A brand new keyboard turned up for me.
Perplexed, and now the apparent owner of 2 Apple keyboards I plugged the new
one in. It 'appeared' to not suffer the same problems as the first one. So I
took the first one to the post office and returned it to them after it was
mentioned to me that they might handle RMA's in the same way hard disk people
do. If it breaks, they ship a new one out straight away, and if they don't get
the old one back, just bill you for the new one. Anyway, turns out the new one
is also broken. Not as much broken as the first one, but it's still broken. It
is useable though, so we'll see how frustrated I get with it. If it gets
worse, I'll jump on it or something and buy one from logitech.

   [1]: http://www.apple.com/uk/retail/regentstreet/

