---
layout: post
title: "A rather surreal evening"
---
Well, that was weird. I had a nice long evening of work planned for tonight,
and it all went pear-shaped.

I was told about a party occurring at 7:30 at a friends. This is not unusual.
I turned up at about 8, and found lots of people cooking random potato/onion
things, which subsequently turned out to be lovely. Then people decided to mix
apples and bananas with them, and that was slightly weird. Then a box of dry
ice was "discovered" in the corner, and thus ensued a rather random episode
involving hot water, a vase, and dry ice. I think the word "atmosphere" arose
at some point. Anyway, after that there was a strange pseudo-threesome in the
corner, followed by another two people turning up and promptly massaging each
other, before disappearing again.

This made things lurch from bad to worse.

A board-game called "The Evil Devil-Bunny" or some variation on that (I really
can't remember) was produced, and played by various people, whilst other
various people googled around for "What to do with Dry Ice". It gets worse
when someone mentioned that if you fill a sink with washing-up liquid and hot
water, and then tip dry ice into it, it explodes. We tried. It went a bit mad.

It was at this point I think my physique was complemented.

Then (it goes on) someone (might have been me) decided that a small container
with a tight fitting lid would make quite a good projectile if filled with dry
ice and water - this turned out to be true.

After resultant injuries has been compensated for with more alcohol and vegan
ice cream, it was then decided that a random 1 day trip to somewhere not in
England would be a really good idea. After a frantic array of internet
searching for cheap flights, and then disappointment coinciding with the
dawning of information that it's valentine's day this weekend, the party broke
up.

I was too scared to collect my rum by the 2 probably-not-wearing-any-clothes
that were sharing a room with my bottle of rum.

