---
layout: post
title: "Common sense"
---
We have this thing, here in England, called common sense. It's a term that
refers to the ability of a person to make logical and rational decisions based
on easily available evidence and without the need for specialist knowledge.

For example, pretend, for an instant, that you are a member of the very
prestigious money-eating club at a particular large academic institution.
Being such an institution, you have 3 terms a year and a period in between
called a vacation. Now, the money-eating club meet every Thursday evening in
term-time and have done without fail every single term for at least the past 2
and a half years as that's how long you have been a member of this club.
Common sense would be the thing that kicks in when you have to decide, on
returning after a vacation period, if there is a meeting on this particular
Thursday. You only have a small number of facts to deal with, but these should
be sufficient to make a judgement. The main facts available are threefold:

1: Money-eating club meets on a Thursday in a time of the year which is not a
vacation, and has done for the past 2 and a half years.

2: It's not vacation.

3: It's Thursday tomorrow.

These facts should unfailingly point to the conclusion that there is in fact a
meeting tomorrow.

I use this example as a representation of real life, with certain names of
things (like days of the week) changed to preserve the anonymity of the
following described stupid people. In real life, I run and organise the
"money-eating club". In real life, I get real people who are apparently
incapable of using their common sense in the method described above to
calculate the day of the next meeting. I therefore have to conclude myself
that they have had their common sense stolen. I pity them.

Of course, it could be perfectly possible that I've had my common sense stolen
as well (without my knowledge). In that case I could be drawing wildly
irrational conclusions and thus be no better than those I seek to mock, but
somehow, I doubt it. If I carry on down this road, I get to "No-one knows
what's right or wrong as everything is subjective", and I don't particularly
want to go there. If you would like to have that particular argument, please
send a SAE to my address (it's out there if you know where to look), and I
shall send you a piece of paper stating that whatever you argue, you're wrong,
because I'm right.

See? It works.

Anyway, the main point of this is that I don't like stupid people. Some would
argue that it's harsh to call people who have had their common sense stolen
"stupid", but I don't think name-calling is at the top of their worry list.

