---
layout: post
title: "Ranting"
---
I feel I should rant some more. I had a little bit of a rant in my previous
entry a few hours back, but I feel that I'm not done yet.

I have nothing to do. This is a result mainly of the fact that I don't have an
income, not having a job. The reason I don't have a job is that no-one wants
to employ me. On a temping basis, it appears that just no-one wants to hire
someone with a degree, and on a permanent basis, I don't have a good enough
degree. So I sit here and occupy this middle ground whilst at the same time
wonder where the money for rent is going to come from.

So I have a plan.

I'm going to create some sort of random decision making process whereby it is
randomly decided what occupation I should try and have. I think that my main
problem is that I don't care enough about any particular area in which I might
want to get a job. So I should pick an area, and just work on that. I'll let
the world know which particular career path I've decided to fling myself at as
soon as I decide. Or god decides, depending on what you believe.

I think I'm just waffling now just for the sake of not having to make this
decision. It's an excuse thingie whereby I just extend whatever I happen to be
doing at the moment just to prevent myself moving onto the next thing in my
life, just because I might not like what's going to happen next. That's pretty
much what's happening here - I'm just typing words, because I can't type and
decide what job to do. That would be silly. If I'm going to decide this, then
I need to be free from distractions. However, I know this and create
distractions like typing waffle to the rest of the world for as long as
possible. Hang on, someone spoke to me on icq.

Wow, that was profound. I just applied for 6 jobs which I don't understand but
I'm apparently qualified for, as well as applying to be a techie at the local
theatre for the upcoming christmas period. Anyway, I'm bored of typing, so I'm
going to stop now.
